VAULT-28520: Docs describing active node/leadership election timing (#28608)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/internals/high-availability.mdx

Like traditional HA standbys, a Performance Standby Node becomes the active instance when the active node is sealed, fails, or loses
network connectivity.

# Becoming an active node

> The active node in an HA configuration is the node that holds an HA lock. When a node relinquishes active duty, either
> because it's unavailable or because an operator has invoked [`vault operator step-down`](/vault/docs/commands/operator/step-down),
> all the nodes in the cluster will attempt to grab the HA lock. Only one node will succeed and this node will become the new active
> node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Active nodes in an HA configuration holds an HA lock. When active nodes become
unavailable or step down because an operator invokes 
[`vault operator step-down`](/vault/docs/commands/operator/step-down), all the 
nodes in the cluster attempt to grab the HA lock. The first node that succeeds 
in grabbing and holding the lock becomes the new active node.
```

Style correction: write in active voice

> How the HA lock works is dependent on which HA storage backend the cluster is running. In Integrated Storage, the HA
> lock is always given to the node which wins the [Raft leadership election](/vault/docs/internals/integrated-storage#leadership-elections).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HA lock competition process depends on the HA storage backend of the cluster.
For example, with raft integrated storage, Vault always gives the HA lock to 
whichever node wins the
[Raft leadership election](/vault/docs/internals/integrated-storage#leadership-elections).
```

Style correction: write in active voice

> Once a node has grabbed the HA lock it will perform a number of setup steps. The node will:
> * Seal
> * Reload the seal configuration
> * Migrate the seal, if needed
> * Reload keys
> * Create a new HA intra-cluster TLS certificate
> * Write an entry to storage advertising that this node is the active node
> 
> Finally, the new active node will unseal and perform its post-unseal setup tasks. In the post-unseal tasks, this new
> active node will support receiving connections from the other nodes in the cluster. Once post-unseal setup completes
> the node will be able to respond to new client requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After obtaining an HA lock, the node goes through a series of inauguration steps
to formally become the active node for its cluster:

1. Seals the local Vault instance.
1. Reloads the seal configuration.
1. Migrates the seal, if needed.
1. Reloads encryption keys.
1. Creates a new HA intra-cluster TLS certificate.
1. Writes an entry to storage advertising its status as the active node.
1. Unseals the local Vault instance.
1. Start accepting connections from other nodes in the cluster.

After completing the inauguration steps, the new active node beings responding to new 
client requests.
```

We should be specific about what seals and what kind of keys we're talking about (I made some guesses for the suggested edit)

Style correction: write in active voice.

> Other standby nodes in the cluster check the leadership storage entry every 2.5 seconds. When a standby node sees that
> there is a new active node, the node will create a new request forwarding connection to that node and attempt to connect
> to it. It’s possible that the connection fails (for example because the active node hasn't yet reached the step where it
> can support receiving standby connections). The standby node will continue trying to connect every 5 seconds as a
> heartbeat. The standby node can accept new client requests at this time, and the node try again to form a connection to
> the active node (if one does not exist) when a client request comes in that needs to be forwarded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HA standby nodes check for active node updates every 2.5 seconds. 
When the active node changes, standby nodes update their forwarding connection
and open a connection to the new active node. The connection will fail until the
new active node starts accepting connections from other nodes in the cluster, so
standby nodes retry the connection every 5 seconds as a heartbeat, or whenever a
new client request arrives that requires forwarding.
```
Style correction: write in active voice

> Assuming that performance standbys are enabled, a standby node will attempt to promote itself to a performance standby
> after it has found a new active node. The standby will send a message to the active node and receive from the active
> node a certificate and key pair to use to receive replicated data from the active node. The node will then seal, perform
> setup tasks, and complete its post-unseal setup and then be ready to serve new client requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With performance replication, standby nodes also promote themselves as
performance standbys the active node updates. The standby requests a certificate 
and key pair from the active node to receive replicated data. Once the standby 
node seals, performs the necessary setup tasks, completes its post-unseal setup,
it can server serve new client requests with data replicated from the active node.
```
Style correction: write in the active voice
